Another important thing to cover with lead and Konst variables is whenever we use them in loops so essentially
what happens is whenever I do a variable inside of a loop typically like for example we'll do like a
for loop and it'll just be real simple.
We'll do our initial calls for I will zero.
I'm less than nine.
That's our conditional clause.
And then we'll do our incrementation like so and then obviously this works as expected.
And I can obviously open up my console and we can see that in action but we already know exactly what
it's going to do.
The problem with this is as we already talked about before outside of this for loop right here if I
do a consulate or log you have to do an I'll like that.
And you can see it prints out nine again.
And if I do another council log you'll see me go out and copy the Real quick.
Load it out and you can see it prints out a nine again.
So in other words what we essentially did was as we said in previous videos we contaminated the global
scope or if this for loop was inside of another function then we would be contaminating that function
scope with an accidental variable that we really didn't need to create like we didn't want to have this
variable available.
We just kind of needed a temporary placeholder for the number of counter to keep track of where we are
in the loop.
And the same thing can apply to other things as well.
And that's why whenever we did like a nested loop we had to do something like for var J equals zero
because we already declared this variable right here.
Now if you use the left keyword with a for loop the result is a little different.
So I'll do the same exact thing for LET.
Equal zero.
The only difference is I'm using a variable instead.
I'll do it minus nine and then increment 9 and do the same exact thing as I did before I'm just going
to cancel that log.
I but then outside of the for loop I'm going to try to do the exact same thing and you can see I get
a reference error right there and it's saying that it's not defined.
So in other words we have a way to create temporary variables to keep track of where we are in the loop
without having to worry about contaminating the enclosing scope.
Now this behavior or functionality has nothing to do with the block scoping of the variable let.
In this case it's just a behavior that was added to Exham a script 2015.
Originally this behavior wasn't even available in Essex 6 but then it was added to that specification.
So this is a great way to do for loops from now on without having to worry about contaminating your
scope.